# IIKG1001

## Week 45

### Lab exercise

#### Goals:
1. Understand two-factor authentication
2. Become familiar with basic access control management using getfacl and setfacl

	Description:

	In this week’s lab, you will learn what two-factor authentication is and why we need it. You will also become familiar with getfacl and setfacl commands, and what makes them different to the ls -l command.

	After finishing the tasks, you may work on the group assignment.

# Installation

_sudo apt update_

_sudo apt install acl_

# Commands

Today’s Linux commands are getfacl and setfacl. To learn more about them, read the manual page on your SkyHigh VM.

# Resources

-          2FA: [https://youtu.be/0mvCeNsTa1g](https://youtu.be/0mvCeNsTa1g)

-          ACL: [https://youtu.be/aIIgtFmWfzo](https://youtu.be/aIIgtFmWfzo)

  

# Exercises: Recap

1. What Linux command lets you see file permissions?
   ls -l or ls -la

2. What Linux command lets you modify file permissions?
   -chmod u+rw filename, or chmod u-rw

5. Create a new file “labWeek45.txt”. Change its permissions to the following bits:
	-rw------- 1 ubuntu ubuntu 0 Nov  5 11:00 labWeek45.txt

Try using both octal number and symbolic representation. Remember to check your result using the command from exercise 1.
	i like using octal instead of numerical. 

# Exercises: Two-factor Authentication (2FA)

4. Two-factor authentication secures the user’s accounts from unwanted access by adding an additional layer of authentication. This comes on top of password login. What security benefits does this additional layer provide?
   - if your password is leaked you are not in a risk at that point to lose private information beacuse they cant login without your knowledge.
   - this makes it also so you in theory can use the same password on different sites. 

5. According to the ACL video, what two methods of authentication do we use?
   - Know: The thing you know, like password
   - Need: Something you have, like a phone or fingerprint

6. In addition to using a password, what other authentication methods can we use to implement two-factor authentication?
	-          Send a code to the user to type it into the login screen. Example: You receive an email with a verification code. You have to enter this in the login screen.
	-          Use another device to approve the login. Example: If you enable Google’s 2FA, you have to approve by using your phone every time you login your Google acocunt.
   

# Exercise: Access Control List (ACL)

7. What benefits do getfacl and setfacl provide over the command from exercise 1 and 2?
   - Permission bits displayed using ls -l does not discriminate users or groups. chmod does also not discriminate individual groups or users. getacl and setfacl allows us to do just that. They let us for instance manage individually set a single user’s permissions.

8. Using the command from exercise 1, how do we know whether the file has additional permissions?
   ls -l has a “+” after the permission bits:

	-rw-------+  1 ubuntu ubuntu 0 Nov  5 11:00 labWeek45.txt

9a. Open the file with nano:

nano labWeek45.txt

Enter the following: “This week’s lab is about 2FA and ACL”. Save and nano.


9b. Create a new user called John.

9c. Change to John’s user and read the file’s content.